
	
		We present a Parameterized Action Representation (PAR) that provides a conceptual representation ofdifferent types of actions used to animate virtual human agents in a simulated 3D environment.
		These actions involve changes of state, changes of location (kinematic) and exertion of force (dynamic).
		PARSare hierarchical, parameterized structures that facilitate both visual and verbal expressions.
		In order to support the animation of the actions, PARShave to make explicit many details that are often underspecified in the language.
		This detailed level ofrepresentation also provides a suitable pivot representation for generation in other natural languages, i.e., a form of interlingua.
		We show examples of how certain divergences in machine translation can be solved by our approach focusing specifically on how verb-framed and satellite-framed languages can use our representation.
	
	
			In this paper, we describe a Parameterized Ac tion Representation (PAR) (Badler et al., 1999)that provides a conceptual representation of differ ent types of actions used to animate virtual humanagents in a simulated 3D environment.
			These ac tions involve changes of state, changes of location (kinematic) and exertion of force (dynamic).
			PARSare hierarchical, parameterized structures that fa cilitate both visual and verbal expressions (Badler et al., 2000).
			In order to support the animation ofthe actions, PARS have to make explicit many de tails that are often underspecified in the language.
			This detailed level of representation is well suitedfor an interlingua for machine translation applications, since the animations of actions   and therefore the PARS that control them   will be equivalent for the same actions described in different lan guages.
			These representations can be incorporated into a system which uses PAR-based animations asa workbench for creating accurate conceptual representations, which can map to seeral different lan guages as well as produce faithful animations.
			The verb classes we are currently considering in this light involve explicit physical actions such asthose expressed in the motion verb class and contact verb class (Levin, 1993).
			Since we are employ ing PAR as an interlingual representation, we willshow examples of how it can handle certain diver gences in machine translation, focusing specifically on how verb-framed and satellite-framed languages (Talmy, 1991) can yield equivalent actions in this representation.
	
	
			We use parameterized action representations to ani mate the actions of virtual human agents.
			The PAR for an action includes the action&apos;s participants (its agent and objects),&apos; as well as kinematic properties such as its path, manner and duration, and dynamic properties, such as its speed and force (see Fig.
			1).The representation also allows for traditional statespace properties of actions, such as applicability conditions and preparatory actions that have to be satisfied before the action can be executed, and termina tion conditions and post assertions which determine when an action is concluded and what changes it makes to the environment state.
			We created a hierarchy of actions, exploiting the idea that verbs can be represented in a lattice that allows semantically similar verbs, such as motion verbs or verbs of contact, to be closely associatedwith each other under a common parent that cap tures the properties these verbs all share (Dang et al., 1998).
			The highest nodes in the hierarchy areoccupied by generalized PAR schemas which represent the basic predicate-argument structures for en tire groups of subordinate actions.
			The lower nodes are occupied by progressively more specific schemas that inherit information from the generalized PARS,and can be instantiated with arguments from natu ral language to represent a specific action such asJohn hit the ball with his bat.
			The example in          is a generalized PAR schema for contact ac &apos;Objects and agents are stored in a hierarchy and have a number of properties associated with them.
			Properties of the objects may include their location and status.
			Agents have capabilities, such as the ability to walk or swim, and properties such as their strength and height.
			12 contact/(par:contact) hit/(manner:forcefully) touch/(manner:gently) kick/(OBJ2:foot) hammer/(OBJ2:hammer)         : A lexical/semantic hierarchy for actions of contact CONTACT PAR activity :[ ACTION ] participants :  agent : AGENT objects : OBJ1, OBJ2 applic cond : reachable(OBJ1) have(AGENT,OBJ2)   preparatory spec : [get(AGENT, OBJ2)] termination cond : [contact(OBJ1, OBJ2)] post assertions : [contact(OBJ1, OBJ2)] path, duration, motion, force manner :[ MANNER ]         : A PAR schema for actions of contact tions between two objects.
			This schema specifiesthat the `contact&apos; action has an agent and two ob jects, and that the action is concluded when the twoobjects come together.2 The preparatory specification of getting the second object is tested and car ried out if the object is not possessed.
			In order to describe a specific action, say hammer, we wouldcombine all of its ancestor representations in the ac tion hierarchy, as shown in         , and add the information specific to that action.
			Since hammer inherits from the PAR for hit, and ultimately from the PAR for contact, its representation would usethe generalized `contact&apos; PAR, with a forceful man ner, and a hammer as the instrument.
			The action hit does not specify any instrument, but inherits the forceful manner and generalized contact PAR from its ancestors, and the action contact leaves both the 2In this example, the second object is the instrument with which the action is performed.instrument and the manner unspecified, and is asso ciated only with the generalized contact PAR.The PAR is intended to provide slots for information that is typically conveyed in modifiers or ad juncts in addition to internal verb arguments.
			Assuch, it is often the case that several different syn tactic realizations can all map to the same PAR schema.
			For example, John hit the ball, John hit the ball with a bat and John swung mightily and his bat hit the ball with a resounding crack would all map to the same schema.3
	
	
			The main components of our animation system are:a natural language interface, a planner and a graphi cal animation (see         ).
			The PARS are used as intermediate representations of the actions between components.An instruction in natural language starts the process.
			We use a Synchronous Tree Adjoining Gram mar (Shieber and Schabes, 1990; Shieber, 1994) forparsing natural language instructions into deriva tions containing predicate-argument dependencies (Schuler, 1999).
			The synchronous parser extractsthese predicate-argument structures by first asso ciating each word in an input sentence with one or more elementary trees, which are combined intoa single derivation tree for the entire input sentence using the constrained operations of substitu tion and adjunction in the Tree Adjoining Grammar formalism (Joshi, 1985; Joshi, 1987).
			As the parser assembles these elementary tree predicates into apredicate-argument structure, it simultaneously se lects and assembles the corresponding schemas.
			It fills in the participants and modifiers, and outputs the PAR schema for the instruction.
			These schemas may be underspecified for actions such as `enter&apos; or `put&apos; and thus not provide enough information for the animation to be produced directly.3The relationship between PARS and alternations may be come much more complicated when we consider other verb classes such as change of state verbs.
			13 Natural Language           General architecture of the animation system The planner uses information from the general schema, such as preconditions and post-assertions,as well as information derived from the agents&apos; ca pabilities and the objects properties to fill in these gaps in several ways:  to select the way (activity) in which the instruction is performed (enter by walking, by swim ming, etc.);   to determine the prepartory actions that must be completed before the instruction is carried out, (for example, in order for an agent to open the door, the door has to be reachable and that may involve a locomotion process);   to decompose the action into smaller units (put the glass on the table, involves getting the glass, planning a route to the table, etc.) The output of the planner for the input instructionis a complete description of the actions involved, including participants, preparatory specifications, termination conditions, manner, duration, etc. Partic ipants bring with them a list of inherent propertiesof the agent (e.g. agent capabilities) or physical objects (e.g., object configurations) and other charac teristics, such as &apos;how to open&apos; for an object such as a door.
			This complete description refers to a setof animation PARS which can be immediately ani mated.
			In this way, a PAR schema for the action enter may actually translate into an animation PAR forwalking into a certain area.
			One way to differenti ate between action PAR schemas and instantiated animation PARs is to consider what it is possible to motion capture&apos; (by attaching sensors to a moving human figure).
			For example, the enter action and the put action are quite general and underspecifiedand could not be motion captured.
			However, char acteristic activities such as walking and swimming could be.
			For further details about the animation PARS and the animation system see (Badler et al, 1999) and (Bindiganavale at al., 2000).
	
	
			The PAR representation for an action can be seen as a general template.
			PAR schemas include, as part of the basic sub-categorization frame, properties of 4There are several other ways to generate motions, forexample, through inverse kinematics, dynamics and key framing.
			the action that can occur linguistically either as the main verb or as adjuncts to the main verb phrase.
			This captures problems of divergences, such as theones described by Talmy (Talmy, 1991), for verb framed versus satellite-framed languages.
			New information may come from a sentence in natural language that modifies the action&apos;s inherent properties, such as in John hit the ball slowly, where &apos;slowly&apos; is not part of the initial representation of the action &apos;hit&apos;.
			This new information is added to the PAR schema.
			Verb- versus Satellite-framed languages Verb-Framed Languages (VFL) map the motion (path or path + ground location) onto the verb,and the manner either onto a satellite or an ad junct, while Satellite-Framed Languages (SFL) map the motion into the satellite, and the manner onto the main verb.English and other Germanic languages are consid ered satellite-framed languages, expressing the pathin the satellite; Spanish, among other Romance lan guages, is a verb-framed language and expresses the path in the main verb.
			The pairs of sentences (1) and (2) from Talmy (1991) show examples of thesedivergences.
			In (I), in English, the exit of the bot tle is expressed by the preposition out, in Spanish the same concept is incorporated in the main verb salir (to exit).
			In (2), the concept of blowing out the candle is represented differently in English and Spanish.
			(1) The bottle floated out La botella solid flotando (the bottle exited floating) (2) I blew out the candle Apague la vela sopldndola (I extinguish the candle blowing) 4.1 Motion.
			In order to capture generalizations about motion actions, we have a generalized PAR schema for mo tion, and our hierarchy includes different types of motion actions such as inherently directed motion and manner of motion actions that inherit from the more general schema, as shown in         .
			Directed motion actions, such as enter and exit, don&apos;t bring with them the manner by which the action is carried out but they have a inherent termination condition.For example, &apos;enter a room&apos; may be done by walking, crawling or flying depending on the agents&apos; ca 14 motion/(par :motion) directed_motion manner_motion enterAterm: in(03J) ) exit/(term: out (OM) crawl/(act :craul) float/(act :float)         : PAR schema hierarchy for motion actions pabilities, but it should end when the agent is in the room.
			In contrast, manner of motion verbs expressthe action explicitly and don&apos;t have an intrinsic ter mination condition.
			Motion is a type of framing event where the path is in the main verb for VFLs and in the satellite for SFLs.
			In (3), we see the English sentence expressing the &apos;enter&apos; idea in the preposition into whereas the Spanish sentence expresses it in the main verb entrar (to enter).
			(3) The bottle floated into the cave La botella entrci flotando a la cueva (the bottle entered floating the cave)The PAR schemas don&apos;t distinguish the representation for these sentences, because there is a sin gle schema which includes both the manner and thepath without specifying how they are reabized lin guistically.
			Mappings from the lexical items to the schemas or to constraints in the schemas can be seenin         .5 Independent of which is the source language, the PAR schema selected is motion, the activity field, which determines how the action is per formed (in this case, by floating), is filled by float(the main verb in English, or the adjunct in Span ish).
			The termination condition, which says that action ends when the agent is in the object, is added from the preposition in English and is part of the semantics of the main verb to enter in Spanish.
			EN float/rparmotion,activity:float] into/[term:in(AG,OBJ)] SP entrarAparmotion,terrn:in(AG,0111)] flotarga.ctivity:floati         : Entries for the example sentences in (3)Because all of the necessary elements for a trans lation are specified in this representation, it is up 8A lexical item may have several mappings to reflect its semantics.
			For instance, float in English can be used also in the non-motion sense, in which case there will be two entries to capture that distinction.
			MOTION PAR - activity : float [agent : bottle I object: cave _ termination_cond in(bottle, cave)        : A (simplified) PAR schema for the sen tences in (3) to the language specific component to transform itinto a surface structure that satisfies the grammati cal principles of the destination language.
			Comparison with other work Our approach now diverges considerably from the approach outlined in Palmer et al.
			(1998) which discusses the use of Feature-Based Tree Adjoining Grammars, (Joshi, 1985; VijayShanker and Joshi,1991) to capture generalizations about manner-ofmotion verbs.
			They do not propose an interlin gua but use a transfer-based mechanism expressedin Synchronous Tree Adjoining Grammars to cap ture divergences of VFL and SF% through the useof semantic features and links between the grammars.
			The problem of whether or not a preposi tional.
			phrase constitutes an argument to a verb or an adjunct (described by Palmer et al.) does not constitute a problem in our representation, since all the information is recovered in the same template for the action to be animated.
			The PAR approach is much more similar to the Lexical Conceptual Structures (LOS) approach,(Jacicendoff, 1972; Jackendoff, 1990), used as an in terlingua representation (Dorr, 1993).
			Based on the assumption that motion and manner of motion are conflated in a matrix verb like swim, the use of LCSallows separation of the concepts of motion, direc tion, and manner of motion in the sentence John swam across the lake.
			Each one of these concepts is participants : 15represented separately in the interlingua represen tation, as GO, PATH and MANNER, respectively.
			Our approach allows for a similar representation and the end result is the same, namely that the event ofswimming across the lake is characterized by sepa rate semantic components, which can be expressedby the main schema and by the activity field.
			In ad dition, our representation also incorporates details about the action such as applicability conditions, preparatory specifications, termination conditions, and adverbial modifiers.
			It is not clear to us how the LCS approach could be used to effect the same commonality of representation.
			4.2 Instrument.
			The importance of the additional information such as the termination conditions can be more clearly illustrated with a different set of examples.
			Another class of actions that presents interesting divergences involves instruments where the instrument is used as the main verb or as an adjunct depending on thelanguage.
			The sentence pair in (4) shows this divergence for English and Portuguese.
			Because Por tuguese does not have a verb for to spoon, it uses a more general verb colocar (to put) as the main verb and expresses the instrument in a prepositional phrase.
			Unlike directed motion actions, a put withhand-held instrument action (e.g., spoon, scoop, la dle, etc.) leaves the activity field unspecified in both languages.
			The specific action is generated by taking the instrument into account.
			A simplified schema is shown in         .
			(4) Mary spoons chocolate over the ice cream Mary coloca chocolate sabre a sorvete corn a collier (Mary puts chocolate over the ice cream with a spoon) PUT3 PAR activity: participants: agent: Mary objects : chocolate, icecream, spoon preparatory_spec: get(Mary, spoon) termination_cond over(chocolate, icecream)         : Representation of the sentences in (4) Notice that the only connection between to spoonand its Portuguese translation would be the termination condition where the object of the verb, choco late, has a new location which is over the ice cream.
	
	
			We have discussed a parameterized representation of actions grounded by the needs of animation of instructions in a simulated environment.
			In order to support the animation of these instructions, our representation makes explicit many details that are often underspecified in the language, such as start and end states and changes in the environment that happen as a result of the action.
			Sometimes the start and end state information provides critical information for accurate translation but it is not always necessary.
			Machine translationcan often simply preserve ambiguities in the transla tion without resolving them.
			In our application we cannot afford this luxury.
			An interesting question to pursue for future work will be whether or not we can determine which PAR slots are not needed for machine translation purposes.
			Generalizations based on action classes provide the basis for an interlingua approach that captures the semantics of actions without committing to any language-dependent specification.
			This framework offers a strong foundation for handling the range of phenomena presented by the machine translation task.The structure of our PAR schenaas incorpo rate into a single template the kind of divergencepresented in verb-framed and satellite-framed lan guages.
			Although not shown in this paper, thisrepresentation can also capture idioms and non compositional constructions since the animations of actions   and therefore the PARS that control them   must be equivalent for the same actions described in different languages.
			Currently, we are also investigating the possibilityof building these action representations from a class based verb lexicon which has explicit syntactic and semantic information (Kipper et at,, 2000).
	
	
			The authors would like to thank the Actionarygroup, Hoa Trang Dang, and the anonymous reviewers for their valuable comments.
			This work was pax tially supported by NSF Grant 9900297.
	
